[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
In my experience,
there are people who claim
to be gurus but know little,
and those who don't
but know much.
Today's guest, Nigel Taylor,
is in the latter category.
Deeply ensconced in the spirit
of life from a very young age,
Nigel has spent a lifetime
immersed in the world's
greatest spiritual
teachings, only
to emerge with his
own understanding
of the nature of reality.
In his book, "The Power Before
Thought," Nigel helps define--
or suggests, in his words-- how
we interface with the waking
dream and how we
can find our power
to live beyond the mass cultural
hypnosis, as you call it.
So good to have you here, Nigel.
>>NIGEL TAYLOR: Lovely
to be here, Regina.
Thank you.
>>REGINA: And I have
to say, this book is
only around 150 pages, and
it's one of the more powerful,
that it's almost in
its own category.
And I've read a lot of them.
But yours is--
>>TAYLOR: I bet you have.
>>REGINA: Yours is superb.
>>TAYLOR: Thank you
for those kind words.
>>REGINA: And I wanted
to say something first.
I have it written down here.
In the book, you start with a
quote from Ralph Waldo Emerson,
OK?
And I think most people
can relate to this.
It says, "To be yourself in
a world that is constantly
trying to make you something
else is the greatest
accomplishment."
And I'm going to ask why you
chose that quote, because it
kind of sets the stage
for the book very well.
Once you finish the
book, you know that.
>>TAYLOR: Well, in a nutshell,
when we look at the world
as it is today, people are,
in many, many instances,
right across the
planet, acting out
of a predetermined structure or
cultural structure which says,
this is who you are.
This is the way you must behave
inside this time frame which
you call your life.
We utilize the
understanding of spirit
to be something that is
separate from who we are.
Therefore, we tend
to be governed.
If we live inside
the world of spirit
and we focus upon, say,
a theology or a New Age
spiritual path,
we tend to follow
particular precepts
inside there.
However, we often become
tied to those precepts,
rather than finding the original
thought, our authentic voice
of who we truly are.
We're born with an
authentic voice.
We're born with an originality.
But from birth, we are told
what to do-- by teachers,
by priests, by politicians.
And the end result
is that we grow
into what we call-- or I call,
at this instance, mass cultural
hypnosis.
The authenticity, like Ralph
Waldo Emerson is saying,
is if you can do that,
if you can actually
become unique to yourself and
live out of that path of truth,
you will change not
only your world,
you'll change the world of every
single person on this planet.
>>REGINA: And yet as
we know, we are not
encouraged to find
that individuality.
>>TAYLOR: Far from it.
>>REGINA: Very few people
are actually ever encouraged
from birth to find
their true essence.
>>TAYLOR: Yes.
Sadly so.
There are individuals
who will actually
pursue their path, to the great
disdain of many of those--
actually, it takes enormous
courage to stand out
and to truly go inside
and find out who you are.
And the reason it's not
popular is because there is not
a reward system that's set up
inside the physical reality we
live in.
The reward system and
knowing who you are,
it can't be matched.
However, the fear
of annihilation,
the fear of actually going
to that place and saying,
let me confront
every aspect of who
I am, let me look deeply
into the mirror of truth,
and really come to a
space of understanding,
has got its own reward, which
is far superior to anything
you could put in
the marketplace.
However, we are
literally structured
with the voices
of infinite others
as to who we are, what we are,
and how we should culturally
and hypnotically
follow as a life path.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
OK, now you have been
teaching this kind of essence
since you were 17.
You were obviously pretty lit
up as a very young person.
How did that happen?
That's quite-- that's
40 years of teaching.
How'd that happen?
>>TAYLOR: Well, it actually
started because I didn't really
fit into my school structure.
I think I was 15, 16.
I was doing physics,
and I was in my--
what would have been the fourth
year of a five-year high school
structure in the
'70s, '60s and '70s.
And my soccer coach
took me home--
>>REGINA: Your soccer coach?
>>TAYLOR: Soccer coach, yeah.
Took me home, sat
down, and waited
until my father got home.
And he laid down the rules.
And he said, if he's going
to continue to play soccer,
he has to do something better.
He's fouled everything
that's here.
Well, part of what
I did-- I grew up
in a working-class family.
I had a job on the
days I wasn't playing
soccer, which was a postman.
I earned enough money to
be able to save the money
to invest in
something I saw in one
of those, like, National
Enquirer magazines, literally.
But what it was, it was
a mind training program.
>>REGINA: And you were
15, 16, making your money
to invest in mind power.
>>TAYLOR: Because I wanted
to understand the mind.
So I sent off for this
correspondence course.
I trained myself, and I have
never, ever looked back.
And so as a consequence, when
I went into the school system--
I went to university and I
was sent into primary school
to start with, to actually--
before I'd really even started
university, they said,
you're a trainee teacher.
Go and teach.
And the moment I walked
in, I didn't haven't
a clue what teaching was.
And I remember the first
superintendent that came out,
and he looked at me, and
he said, come here, son.
He said, give up now.
You will never be a teacher.
And that was when
I realized that I
didn't fit in the
structure they had.
And my whole concept of looking
at the way in which thought
processes were actually
understood inside an education
system were very, very
different to the way
I personally was
experiencing it.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>TAYLOR: So the
consequence of that
was that as I progressed
through high school teaching,
I not only learned
from the kids,
but I shared with them ways
of meditation and motivation.
>>REGINA: Wow, how
lucky were they?
>>TAYLOR: Well, I had
wonderful kids to work with.
You know, they
were really unique.
And so they taught me more
than I could teach them.
>>REGINA: Did kick you
out of the school system,
ultimately, for doing
this heretical stuff?
>>TAYLOR: I had phenomenal
staff I worked with,
and I went to a number
of different schools.
However, the one thing that
might the difference was when
education moved from being
something which you could
actually-- like Plato
would say, in principle,
you can train anybody
to do anything.
But you educate people
by drawing out of them
their innate wisdom.
And so when it
went from actually
being able to assist children,
or pre-university students,
to actually give
forth understanding,
not getting them to rote
repeat-- when it went from, OK,
this is what you've got to do.
You've got to train
these for the economy.
You can't-- and I was
teaching economics, right?
And I'd say, you know, but
they've got to be human beings.
They've got to
live in the world.
And once they said, this is
it, you are now a trainer,
and you must keep all these
records, et cetera, I said,
I'm out.
I'm finished.
And that's when I
went and took what
I was doing in a small scale
and I trained with some--
>>REGINA: Masters.
>>TAYLOR: Very good people.
I've had phenomenal
teachers over my life.
And I still have.
I still have.
This is instructive, too, see?
>>REGINA: Yes.
OK, so now that we know
you a little bit better,
let's go back to
the notion of maya.
Because this is really at the
crux of the theme of the book.
Explain what maya is.
>>TAYLOR: Maya is
a Sanskrit word.
In the context in which
we use it in the book,
it's a Sanskrit
word which literally
means to be an engineer or
an architect of an idea,
to actually construct a thought.
And so if you actually take
the fundamentals of the Eastern
philosophy, the Brahmanistic
and Vedic teachings,
they will tell us that the
whole of creation is maya.
And there are many
ways of looking at it.
Some say, well, therefore,
maya is an illusion.
Well, it's an illusion in that
it has the ultimate reality
of dissolving at the end
of a grand cosmic cycle.
However, from the
perspective of the source,
the absolute principle--
by whatever name
we use, and it doesn't matter.
We can use any name at all.
That's part of the
problem, of course--
is that the universe
and the cosmos, per se,
is a meditation in itself.
And as a meditation, it
contains all possibilities.
Everything is there.
The actual unfolding
of that meditation
is through the act and
presence of the force of maya.
Rather than seeking
to erase maya
from our life, what we do
is we seek to rise above it.
And as we seek to
rise above it, it
means you become a master
at the lower levels of mind,
at the lower levels
of the dream,
at the lower levels of idea.
Learn that there are
specific laws which
govern each level of creation,
master them, and rise up
to the next level.
For instance, you can hear that
gravity says you can't fly.
Aerodynamics says
this is how you do it.
So we move through
different levels of reality
until the maya,
ultimately-- we go back
from this myriad of
infinite possibilities
which we call life, and we go
back closer and closer until we
get to our source
point, and we dissolve
in the meditation of the actual
force of the principle of love
itself.
We go into that space.
>>REGINA: And we're going
to go further and deeper
into that part of the story as
our conversation progresses.
Because there's quite a bit
to contend with and unravel
in that process.
This isn't a quick
process, which is--
>>TAYLOR: Well, I'm sure
it could be if we were not
living in that
ocean of illusion.
>>REGINA: Right.
And once one finds their way
to that feeling or that place,
it makes it a lot easier
to go back there--
>>TAYLOR: Yes, it does.
>>REGINA: Than it does to
get there the first time.
And that's why we're
going to construct
our conversation in this way.
OK.
So one of the things you
talk about that's interesting
is the greater good,
how so much of society
has been fabricated
for the greater good.
But you have a completely
different notion
of what the greater
good actually means,
and the compromise within that.
>>TAYLOR: Well, you know, the
principle of the greater good,
from the perspective of
society as we are told,
is there are
sacrifices which must
be made in order for the
benefit of the greater society.
So if it means, for instance,
we have a need for people
to give up a specific
activity in order
to benefit the
greater community,
then that would
be for the greater
good of the whole
community itself.
The greater good, the
way that I'm seeing it
from the perspective
of spirit, is
that everything we do,
every thought we have,
every aspect of
our soul journey,
is tempered by a series of very
simple governing principles.
Is what I'm doing-- which
is first and foremost
from the volition of my thought.
Is what I'm doing
taking me closer
to that which will bring
about greater love, greater
light, greater joy,
greater happiness?
Not just for what I perceive
myself to be, but for the whole
of creation in which I live?
So the governing principle
is not the cultural myth.
It is the abiding truth
that we are so much more
than this physical being who
we perceive ourselves to be.
Hence, if we're taking an
act based upon our thought
process-- and that's
another whole area.
>>REGINA: We're going
to talk about lower
thought in a moment.
>>TAYLOR: Yeah.
But if we take an
act and we are truly
trying to achieve something
inside the greater good,
there are some fundamental
questions to ask.
And the primary one, as
far as I'm concerned,
is, is this act which I
am actually undertaking,
no matter what it is,
leading me closer to love?
Or is it moving
me away from love?
>>REGINA: And isn't that
really-- shouldn't that
be the one and only
question we ever
ask ourselves every
minute of every day?
>>TAYLOR: I would
absolutely agree with that.
>>REGINA: But that's not part
of considering the greater good,
as a rule.
>>TAYLOR: As a social
norm, no, it's not.
>>REGINA: Which is laden with
wars for the greater good.
>>TAYLOR: If we were to
look at the greater good,
we would not be now looking at
what's happening in the world
today.
As we talk here, the
events that are unfolding
in the world-- the
greater good is not
being served by
conflict in any area.
That is not the greater good.
That is serving the
mass cultural hypnosis,
and that's serving
lower thought forms.
And it's serving the lower maya,
the lower ideational aspects
of creation.
And see, those have got a
vibration all of themselves.
They're entities
unto themselves.
Fear is an entity.
You can look at anything--
like cancer's an entity.
Fear is an entity.
Love is not an entity.
Love is our truth.
And getting there means
dissolving everything
that in any way would
prevent us from knowing that.
>>REGINA: And
though, in the book,
you're talking
about the separation
from that, in that we're not
living our greatest potential.
Very, very few humans are
living their greatest potential,
and because we're trapped in
the field of lower thought.
Tell us exactly what you mean
by lower thought within this.
>>TAYLOR: Lower
thought-- the easiest way
to look at lower
thought is to consider
the vibrational
nature of creation.
The lower thought aspects
are whereby we're living out
of a series of myths,
a series of-- they
could be personal
myths, they could
be family myths--
which are propagating
the continuance of an order
which is not moving us out
in an evolutionary arc, back
into a higher sense of not
only love, but also the greater
concept of healing our self
to heal all of creation.
For instance, we are--
everything in creation
is a thought form.
Everything.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>TAYLOR: So everything in
creation's a thought form.
You're a though form in my
mind, and I am one in your mind.
How I relate to you, if I
see you and I experience you
as a beautiful being that has
got eternal love and great joy
and happiness, wisdom, et
cetera, as opposed to if I saw
you-- well, you
remind me of an auntie
I had that, et cetera--
that is my creation.
And the lower thought
forms are-- in some way,
they diminish the beauty and
the majesty of the divinity
or the purity of the soul who is
actually brought into my life.
Now if I diminish you in
my life, I diminish myself.
And so the lower
vibrational thought forms
are ones that actually diminish
any aspect of creation.
So we could look
at, for instance,
religious disorder,
whereby, say,
a Catholic and a
Protestant would
argue for each their own
god against the other god.
And what they do is they
diminish their own beauty
because they diminish
another person's beauty.
>>REGINA: Because
they're taking everything
to a lower frequency range.
>>TAYLOR: They're taking
it to a lower frequency.
To a lower frequency.
And of course, inside
that lower frequency,
once you have separation,
there is then the fear of
what that separation means.
You know, the realization
is that if you
were separate from
me, that separation
means I don't have control.
And if there's no
control, then that
means I need to do something to
master the environment, which
is an external perception rather
than the internal perception.
Whereas if I can take myself
to a place of equanimity,
whereby I can be rocked left
and right but find peace,
whether I'm amongst--
say, for instance,
say if I was in
Israel right now.
To be in a war-torn
scenario like that
and to be amongst any situation
and to be able to find peace
would be to actually rise above
the vibrations of separation.
Now, a true master,
man or woman,
who has reached a
place of knowing
who they are can walk
amongst them, have no fear.
Because the no fearing
means that their life
is recognized as an instrument
of that grand meditation.
That they're actually
here to serve a purpose,
to uplift all of creation.
They're not just simply
there for the purposes
of decorating the planet,
which is what so much
of what is happening
today happens to be about.
>>REGINA: You know,
it's interesting,
because as you're saying
that-- and as you said,
you can either diminish
me upon meeting,
or you can put me in an exalted
position in your own mind,
honoring that spark within.
That's our choice.
And when we get into the habit--
it's just a habit, really, more
than anything, which has an
addictive cycle, including
a chemical cycle,
of criticizing,
gossiping, judging,
and so forth-- as soon
as we engage in that, you can
feel the separation happening
between you and
the object of that.
And then once you
feel separation,
most people it seems then
go into fear of the other.
The fear follows the separation.
Is that--
>>TAYLOR: That's
absolutely-- that's exactly--
that's exactly where we
are at this moment in time.
The fear-- well, you
often hear it said,
love is letting go of fear.
And that's a very
well-known statement.
I would posit that
that in itself
is a cultural New
Age expression.
Because it's not that fear and
love are diametrically opposed.
They're not.
There is something higher.
It's like a false
argument, a false debate,
about something that
keeps us inside the dream
and away from the truth.
The higher principle
is that what
we think of as love and
hate-- and if they were
at opposite extremes-- are
simply not what this is about.
The higher principle
is that we say
indifference is the killer,
where we don't know who we are,
and we don't know what love is,
and we don't know what hate is.
Because we recognize hate.
We can deal with it.
If we recognize what we think
love is, we can honor it
and we can work with it.
But it's impossible to actually
love anything, anybody,
unless you're in that
holy moment of now.
People speak about hate.
Hate is an impossibility
in this moment.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>TAYLOR: It's not possible.
And yet what people
fail to realize
is they take--
they'll build hate,
but they're building it based
on all these past lower thought
projections, bringing
it into this moment,
and projecting into
the future, which
amplifies separation and
then multiplies the fear.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>TAYLOR: And then the fear
creates the greater separation.
>>REGINA: And going back
to the word indifference,
it seems to me that
that mass cultural
hypnosis you're talking
about-- and we'll
get into why and
how and where that
comes from-- that
fosters indifference.
>>TAYLOR: It's no
question in my mind.
It absolutely
fosters indifference.
Because you think about-- if
you turn on mainstream media,
if you see enough images
of death and destruction,
and you hear it, and
you're in the airport,
and whether you want to watch
it or not, its on there--
you become numb.
And in this world
today, people become
numb to the realities of what
is happening inside the dream.
And so it's easier to
therefore become indifferent.
That's bad, isn't it?
You know, it's terrible.
It's very sad.
>>REGINA: It's just so much.
What can you do about it?
>>TAYLOR: Yeah, exactly.
But there is so much one can do.
There is so much that we can do.
We can change this world, and
it's-- the reason it's not
actually accepted and run with
as simply as what we're talking
about here is because it takes a
willingness to step out of that
stream of lower consciousness
and to actually look at who you
are.
And then to own it, and to make
some very powerful choices.
You know, I think
it was Osho, Osho--
>>REGINA: I was a
fan of Osho's work.
>>TAYLOR: I think it
was-- he was a wild--
>>REGINA: Wild, yes.
>>TAYLOR: Absolutely
phenomenal spiritual teacher.
>>REGINA: Brilliant person.
>>TAYLOR: Yeah,
brilliant, phenomenal.
But he once said,
the easiest way
to avoid truth is to believe.
>>REGINA: Believe in
something external.
That's true.
What a simple and
true statement.
I love it.
>>TAYLOR: That's
all there is to it.
Simple.
>>REGINA: Let's talk now
about the power of-- we're
backtracking a little
bit, just to kind of get
what this really
means, the meat of it.
The power of thought forms.
And you tell a story in
your book about Joan's dog.
Because-- and I'll comment,
I'll make a comment afterward
about it-- this is
how it really works.
So tell us about Joan's dog.
>>TAYLOR: It was a
fascinating experience.
I mean, one of the
things-- obviously
to put this in context-- one
of the parts of my journey
is to act as an
instrument to heal.
I'm not the healer.
I am simply the instrument.
And that happens to be.
Because if I did it, it
would be a complete disaster.
I know that.
Now having said that, this
lady comes in for a healing.
And she's in the room,
and I'm in a space
of what I call surrender.
So I have to get
out of my own way.
And when I get
out of my own way,
then I can perceive in a
higher vibrational state.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>TAYLOR: Which is what
any healer will tell you.
Some will feel, some
will sense, and others
will experience it differently.
But I'm looking at her, and the
first thing I see, in spirit,
is this little brown dog.
And I'm looking at this thing,
and I said, do you have a dog?
She goes, no.
I said, I'm looking-- and
I'm being shown this dog.
This dog's right in
front of me, you know,
because I have the
spiritual support mechanism.
And I said, does she have a dog?
I said, are you sure
you don't have a dog?
She says--
>>REGINA: She says,
well, I would know.
>>TAYLOR: No.
She said no.
And I thought, ask again.
So I said-- and
I thought, surely
she'd know if she had a dog.
And I said, Joan, do
you-- are you absolutely
certain you don't have a dog?
She goes, oh my god.
And then she just
cracked up laughing.
And she literally-- and
I thought, OK, well,
what's so funny?
And I said-- and then
she told me the story.
And what it was, from
a very early age--
I'm thinking she
was about eight.
She was a member of a very
large family, Italian family.
And they all wanted a pet.
They wanted a dog.
And the father and mother
said, we can't afford that.
You know, we don't have
the funds to do it.
It's bad enough feeding you kids
without having to feed the dog.
So they sat down as a group
and they created a dog
in their mind.
Now this is a classic, right?
Because they create the dog.
They went through
what type of dog,
and it had to be a spaniel,
it had to be brown,
and it had to be this.
And they gave it a name.
They gave everything.
Now what they did with
this dog, right up
into their adult years, was
they would take it for a walk,
they would feed it, they
would call it to the table,
they would put it to bed.
They had a place for it.
And all of the whole
family recognized this dog.
They'd walk into
the house, and-- I
don't know what the dog's name
was, let's say it was Rupert.
Come here, Rupert, type
of thing, and then bang,
the dog would be in their mind.
Now fast forward.
I'm kind of guessing the lady
was in her early, mid 50s.
And this dog shows up in
her session of healing.
The point of it showing up
was to illustrate to her
that we are multidimensional
beings, that we exist
across a full spectrum
of reality, which
most people never give
a second thought to.
And that all of the thoughts
we have that we give power to
are going to be with us
throughout our existence,
not only-- and this is the
key point-- not only in
this incarnation, but
these thought forms
will track us throughout
infinite incarnations,
until we have learned the power
of consciousness to create.
And so this little
fella, this little dog,
was there teaching her.
And then the point was, OK,
what are the dogs in your life?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>TAYLOR: What are
the dogs in your life?
What are the thought forms
which are following you?
Do have a thought
form of poverty?
One of anger?
One or hurt?
One of grief?
One of suffering?
One of a loss of a
parent or something?
And these are the ones which
then came up for healing.
And when they came
up for healing,
it was like, if these are in the
essence of the multidimensional
being that you are-- if this
is the tuning fork that's
tuning at 432 hertz, and
I knock this one here
and I put another one,
that's going to be 432 hertz.
That's going to ring with it.
If you're carrying the energy
of any thought form-- hence,
let's go back to mass
cultural hypnosis.
The thought form of, OK,
somebody of one faith
hates someone of another faith.
Hate, right?
Or a thought form
of, you know, war
is inevitable because of
the nature of the society
we live in.
These thought forms are
passed across time and space.
And if we in any way buy
into the teachings-- which
are put out in mass media,
in magazines, et cetera--
then these become
reinforcing of the tone,
and we vibrate at that lower
essence, which you spoke about
in the beginning.
And so we carry
these around with us.
Well, once we recognize them,
we can do something about it.
We don't need to carry
poverty, hatred, anger, hurt,
frustration, the
delusion that we
are separate from other beings.
We can heal ourselves, bring all
that back into ourselves, which
is the process of
self-reflection.
And we can be human,
rather than just act
as a vehicle which is here
to decorate the planet.
We can do something.
>>REGINA: Indeed.
And I interviewed Tom
Campbell, the author
of "My Big TOE," which
is Theory of Everything.
And he's a physicist, and he was
one of the original people that
was working with
Robert Monroe when they
were building all
the experiments.
>>TAYLOR: I knew Robert Monroe.
I loved him.
Yes.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And a wonderful man.
And his-- the way
he terms reality
is that it's a mass rendering,
as though you would render
an image-- a video
image on a computer
to come together and
become a physical reality.
That it was a mass
rendering of consciousness.
So this mass cultural
hypnosis you're talking about
is a rendering of reality that
is as alive as its own entity,
as her dog was.
>>TAYLOR: Absolutely.
Absolutely.
>>REGINA: And then
we're going to create
that as a physical reality
over time, in some way.
>>TAYLOR: And we are.
And this is-- this is
where the power of prophecy
can be quite degrading
to the human spirit.
>>REGINA: Talk about that.
Let's talk about
power of prophecy
and what's happening when you're
in a psychic session, what's
actually being read.
I have a lot of
thoughts on that, too.
>>TAYLOR: Well, we're talking
prophecy in a grander scheme.
Prophecy in a grander
scheme, my perception--
this is a perception.
And by the way, you know nothing
I say here is an absolute.
Because if we go there, we're
completely screwed, right?
>>REGINA: You say everything
you say is just a suggestion.
>>TAYLOR: It's a suggestion.
Because the idea is people can
learn from anything anybody
says but rise above
it and go beyond it.
Now prophecy-- to
my line of thinking,
there's two levels of prophecy.
The base level of prophecy is
the very low spiritual essence
whereby, if we're
talking dimensions,
if we speak dimensions,
you basically--
if you could imagine,
like here, this
is five-sensory-- sight,
sound, taste, touch, smell.
Then we step out a little
bit into a higher vibration.
We're in our astral body.
And then we move
all the way back,
and we keep going 180 degrees.
We're over here.
We are pure, absolute,
complete mergence
into the meditation,
the love, the light.
Now anything less
than that mergence,
and we are moving around
inside the spectrum of thought.
Multidimensional-- parallel
universes, alternate realities,
past lives, future
lives, et cetera.
All of those, time disappears
and takes on different nature
and becomes a
different possibility.
At the lowest level
in the movement
into the spiritual
realm, in the psychic,
in the very low psychic area--
>>REGINA: Yes,
lower astral realm.
>>TAYLOR: Lower
astral realm, we are
subject to impressions
which are-- ultimately,
at the end of the day,
they're our impressions.
But they are
impressions which come
from the multifaceted aspect
that we are, which might have,
at least in humanity,
seven billion parts.
And then all the past life
aspects and soul aspects.
So when we move into this
psychic and the lower astral
realm, the prophecy
oftentimes becomes
very, very much a reinforcement
of the energies, which
are the dogs and the other
thought forms, which actually
surround the soul at
that level of creation.
And so a low-level
psychic reader-- and I
say this with
respect, because there
are people who are
truly wonderful,
and there are people,
it's like, questionable.
>>REGINA: Gotcha.
>>TAYLOR: So what happens is
at the low level, what they're
doing is bringing
their own 432 hertz
or whatever it is-- that's
the good energy, right?
I should pick a different one.
But they're bringing in
their own lower vibration.
They're actually reading
from the low-level vibration
of themselves into the auric
field of the soul that they're
working with, and then
they're giving a prophecy
based upon that.
Oftentimes, it will
be self-fulfilling
because the vibration
is so aligned
that the soul who's
getting the reading
will then reinforce the
already existing dogs.
>>REGINA: Because they're
thinking about it.
>>TAYLOR: Because they're
thinking and they're creating,
and then they're
living out of it.
Now the high level, the
high-level prophecies,
are the likes of
the great beings
who really are ecstatic
with love and light and joy.
These are the Rumis.
These are the Hafiz.
These are the-- the great ones,
like the Christ and the Buddha.
These are the great beings
who have created a pathway
to literally-- I'm just trying
to think of the right word
to use.
It's like we penetrate
through the thickness
of the veil of heavy
cultural thought forms.
These beings are already so
highly evolved and enlightened
that they shine a path through
and they enlighten-- wherever
they go, they have
this radiant energy
which changes everything
in their presence.
There are no miracles.
They are the miracle,
and they remind us
that we're the miracle.
Now when they reach
this higher level,
these thought
forms which they're
putting in place-- like peace,
compassion, love, truth,
righteousness,
nonviolence, equanimity,
all of those overridingly
beautiful energies,
they couch in subtle teachings.
And the subtle teachings
can be parables.
They can be
metaphors, et cetera.
And they give them as
a prophetic message
for when we're
ready to actually be
able to walk into
those subtle teachings.
And then we have the
experience of what
those masters have
already put in place.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>TAYLOR: So great teachings--
the poetry of Rumi,
et cetera, all of that is
like, you can dance in it.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>TAYLOR: It's like Jabbar.
I don't know if you remember--
he was a mystic, a Sufi mystic,
way back.
I think it was about 1200.
But he never, ever spoke in
the language of his people.
He always spoke rubbish.
And so people would
go to him and they'd
have these beautiful experiences
of love and enlightenment
and joy--
>>REGINA: Makes sense.
They can't attach a
thought form to it.
>>TAYLOR: Because that is the
origin of the word "gibberish."
>>REGINA: Oh, interesting!
>>TAYLOR: And that's where
we get "gibberish" from,
because he was
talking gibberish.
Because no one could--
>>REGINA: But he was
giving them the experience.
>>TAYLOR: Because like
Bob Monroe used to say,
I will not use language
which you can identify with.
Because if I use language
you identify with,
you will go into
that thought form
and you would have the
limitation of that experience.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
OK.
>>TAYLOR: I was
getting carried away.
Sorry.
>>REGINA: No, it's wonderful.
There's-- we can carry on.
I have so many more things
I want to talk to you about.
One of the things you talk about
within this whole illusion,
the dream that we
create, is the notion
of karma, which you say is
very much misunderstood.
In fact, even what the word
means is misunderstood.
>>TAYLOR: You know, the
way I perceive it, again,
is that through the time frame
of-- I'm kind of guessing
the 1900s, with the
Theosophical movement,
through all the movement of what
ultimately became the Western
mystery traditions, in
the West in the 1900s--
>>REGINA: Yeah, Helena
Blavatsky and all that.
>>TAYLOR: Yeah, and the
classical physics, Newtonian.
There came this mechanistic
model of the world.
And the mechanistic
model of the world
is a cause-effect model, a
very linear cause-effect model.
And so what happened
is, it's like, well,
as you sow, so shall you reap.
And that becomes
the law of karma.
And yes, it is, in a way.
However, karma-- again,
a Sanskrit word--
simply means one thing,
and that is action.
That's all it means.
It means action.
Now we can attribute
anything we want to it.
But karma means action.
Now the place of action is
in the physical reality,
where we are engaged actively
in one of two things.
We're either moving away from
love or moving towards love.
Now the way I have
understood this,
and that's simply
one suggestion,
is that this vehicle, the
physical vehicle, through which
we inhabit as a
spiritual being, we've
got all the gifts
available to us to act.
And how we act is going to
make the world of difference
to what vibrations we share with
the other aspects of ourselves
which we're interacting
with at all levels of being.
So therefore, when we look at
this body-- this body, to me,
at birth, is my blessing body.
Now some people say, well,
it's your karmic body.
This is my blessing body.
This is all the
blessings I've got.
It involves my talents.
It involves all the
possibilities that I have.
And some of the talents
may be sickness.
It may be weaknesses, et cetera.
It's got everything that
marks me for who I am.
But the beauty of
the blessing body,
which is the capacity
to play actions
in this physical reality
of linear time-space,
is that if we actually
constantly move towards love,
away from that which is the
illusion of what we think
love is and into the experience
of love, which we can't put
words to, then what happens
is an act of grace intervenes.
And karma gets
dissolved, or effaced.
Now I'm not talking about
some character sitting up
there saying, let me see,
what did Regina to today?
Oh, she was good, you know?
Bang!
That's gone.
It's not about that.
It's about the energy balance
in the entire meditation
of the absolute
principle of love.
As we move into
that space of love,
the more we do that, the
blessing body effaces actions--
which may be in these
parallel universes,
like the little
dogs, which becomes
like the shadows and the
fears of previous life
and previous incarnations.
So inherently, karma,
therefore, is a blessing
that we can work
with to look at who
we are, to master the
energies of our life,
and to use it to rise above the
limitations that are imposed
upon us when we accept
other people's thought
forms as our own.
>>REGINA: Essentially
dissolving--
>>TAYLOR: Dissolving.
Effacing--
>>REGINA: All the rest.
>>TAYLOR: Absolutely.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: Well,
I mean obviously,
that's kind of the
end of the story.
That's where we want to end up.
OK, so when we're looking at
the creation of the reality,
you also point to the notion
that quantum physics itself
has already essentially proven
that nothing exists until you
witness it, believe
it, and dream it.
>>TAYLOR: It's an
observation, yes.
>>REGINA: If it's not an
observation, it does not exist.
Now this has been-- I've
interviewed many people
in the world of quantum physics.
So let's just say they've
come to that conclusion.
Nothing exists
until it's observed.
>>TAYLOR: Yes.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: So what does that
mean for our creation of life?
And then talking
about observation,
I wanted to have you carry
this into how what we observe,
even externally, even down
into a physical reality--
and the man who viewed the
pictures, who had the illness
and so forth.
Let's talk about the notion
of creation of reality
in a quantum sense, that way.
>>TAYLOR: Well, you know,
the principle-- and I'm
not a quantum physicist.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>TAYLOR: But the principle
of the quantum physicists
simply tells us that by the
very act of observation,
something becomes manifest.
In other words, wherever you
place your conscious awareness,
such shall be the outcome.
Now in terms of
how that manifests,
therefore, it's like-- let's
just go through a basic model
here.
And I explained it in the book.
It's basically-- we're
not our physical body.
We believe we are.
We act as though we
are, but we're not.
The physical body is,
at the end of the day,
if we just keep pushing down
into the furthest reaches,
we can say it's energy.
And then beyond energy, it
is simply a field of light.
And beyond a field of light,
we can't even define it.
We could-- we do get attached
to the physical body.
We believe we're
the physical body.
We act as if it's
And as a consequence, therefore,
we are tied to our karma,
because this is the
physical reality.
Now quantum physics says, but
that's an illusion, you know?
The physical body is
not really an existence.
It's a field of possibility.
When you go back to your
emotional body, which
doesn't necessarily
exist separate,
but it's a higher experience--
>>REGINA: In the hierarchy,
it's above the physical.
>>TAYLOR: It's a higher-- yeah.
Now how many people act as if
they're their emotional body?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>TAYLOR: We defend
our emotions,
and we argue for
emotions, and that's
the same thing as Rajneesh said.
You know, well, hey, if
you want to avoid truth,
then believe in something.
So we argue for these emotions.
We're greater than our physical,
greater than our emotional,
we're greater than
our mental-- we're
greater than anything
we can conceive.
And I put in the book, and I
know that this doesn't always
sit too well with
people, but you're
greater than anything you
can conceive, including God.
You say, oh my--
>>REGINA: I'm going to
get to that in a moment.
OK.
>>TAYLOR: Now pulling this-- now
that doesn't mean to say-- it's
our concept of God.
>>REGINA: Right.
I understand.
>>TAYLOR: Now pushing
this back further,
and coming to where you
were on those photographs--
which I believe
you're talking about--
>>REGINA: The man,
the client that
came in who had phys-- yes.
>>TAYLOR: So this client
comes in for a healing session
and has a significant
illness going on.
Now there's actually
a couple of dimensions
to this, one of
which is in the book.
The client comes in and
has this physical illness.
And I'm watching what's
unfolding in spirit,
and the first thing I see
are a series of images,
like photographs.
This is like, there
are some photographs.
And I'm thinking,
do you have anything
to do with photography,
photographs, et cetera?
And the answer was yes,
you know, I do photography.
And in actual fact, I work
with photographs for magazines.
Or I did.
"Did" was the operative word.
>>REGINA: So that was--
these images were his life.
>>TAYLOR: Yes.
And the point was that I was
pressed in spirit to say, well,
these images are important.
Tell me about these
images, and tell me
when you were working with them.
Because the images which I was
being shown were images of war,
death, and destruction.
They were extremely hard to
even see in spirit, to look at.
They were violent images.
And I know most of your viewers
will know exactly what I'm
talking about, and I don't
want to bring the images up.
You can imagine,
because it goes back
to-- I think it was in
Cambodia, the monk which
was self-immolating himself.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>TAYLOR: So having said that,
this wasn't that time frame,
but this was a war scenario.
Could have been Bosnia,
I think, at the time.
Anyway, the point
was that this client
had been working with these
photographs, and then stopped.
And the question was, when did
you stop and why did you stop?
I stopped because I
actually became very sick.
OK.
It was the exact same time--
there was a time frame.
And the point which
was made, and which
was very, very important,
was that these images, which
are photographic images,
actually, there was--
through the multidimensional
aspect of our being,
through our parallel
universes, through past life,
present life, future life,
through the impressions which
were in spirit upon these
images, which were taken
by this person, cut and
prepared for a magazine,
had impacted her soul and
had linked her whole being
across time and space
to the being that
had the suffering at the moment.
Now she wasn't--
he wasn't, rather--
present at the time of those
particular events taking place,
but the observation--
>>REGINA: The imprint.
>>TAYLOR: Of those
images, the imprint,
was so profound that
what happened was
it caused an imprint upon
her own energetic or quantum
level of reality.
Because she collapsed, or
he collapsed, into reality
those experiences so real
that they started to manifest
in the actual physical body.
They became blockages in
the actual physical body.
>>REGINA: Oh.
OK, interesting.
Now-- OK.
Let's extend this into the
mass cultural hypnosis.
These images are being shown
on television every day.
>>TAYLOR: All the time.
>>REGINA: We're in a very, very
bad period of history today.
These horrid images from
Palestine are flying around
the internet today, that really,
it's-- I feel it's almost
damaging to take
it in in that way.
We know what's going on.
>>TAYLOR: There's
absolutely no question.
>>REGINA: Because it's going
to damage our psyche forever.
And so this is being
perpetuated, however,
by the mass cultural
hypnosis, which you say
is overseen and
inspired by unseen
forces that live in
another dimensional field.
Let's talk about it.
Because we have the
essence of the brilliant
we won't give a name to, and
the brilliant in ourselves,
that's constantly
being challenged
by actual beings who exist
in other dimensions that
are perpetuating this darkness.
>>TAYLOR: Yes.
Yeah.
There is no question in my mind,
in my experience, that there
is-- let me put it this way
and just see if we can follow.
We look at time, and we
tend to think of time
by a clock or a calendar,
and we monitor things,
and we say, well, that's life.
You know, that was my life,
that's my grandfather's life,
et cetera.
But the actual
principle of time is
something which is part of
the hypnosis that we live in.
Now once we get outside
of the physical reality
and outside of the
emotional reality,
and go right back
into spirit and just
keep going further
back, what we find
is that the great teachings
of all traditions-- be it
the Mayan or be it the
Vedas-- speak about time
as a cyclical, grand possibility
which is forever unfolding.
And what happens is there is
this involution of beingness
into a space where
we all realize
that we are literally one.
And then we break away
and take the brilliance
of what we've learned as
we've gone into time back
to that point within the
heart of the meditation.
So in that journey of coming to
this oneness, we get to a place
where we've had infinite
experiences of pursuing love.
Infinite experiences.
In that journey, there are
not only the soul beings
that we've had, but we have
had experiences of pain, hurt,
suffering, anguish, darkness.
Those parts which, if we don't
heal them, they break away.
And they resonate
with each other,
and then they take up
their own form in spirit.
And they become-- like
an angel is a form to us,
these become demons,
which are forms to us.
Now an angel is as real
as you and I are here.
I have no question
at all about that.
But a demon is, as well.
And so there is
this-- inside us,
there is this
battle that's going
on between the
truth of who we are,
which is our light essence, our
love, and then the darkness.
But these aspects
of our-- and I'm
going to use the
word demon, right?
Because that's the
easiest way to say it.
The shadow part of ourselves.
They belong to a
hierarchy in the same way
as we belong to a family.
And so these aspects
actually start
to endeavor to
manipulate the greatest
gift we have inside creation,
and that is the imagination.
There is nothing more powerful.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>TAYLOR: And so we
have the imagination,
which means we can
think outside the box.
We can find ways to love like
we've never loved before.
However, if you can
control the imagination,
if you can limit the
expanse of light,
if you can bring
darkness into a corner
and then eradicate the light
simply by bringing darkness--
the light never ceases to exist.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>TAYLOR: What you will do
is you will instill fear.
And it is literally-- these
beings do exist in spirit.
I've met them, and
I have no question
at all about these characters.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>TAYLOR: I mean, I've come
face-to-face with them.
And they are--
they're in my reality.
They're part of who I am.
And so as a consequence
of that, our greatest gift
is to be able to constantly have
the courage, the willingness,
the forthrightness, to
actually step up to the plate
and challenge every single
part of our shadow self.
Because that may be in the
physical, the emotional,
the mental, the spiritual.
It goes all the way up till we
get into that space of light.
>>REGINA: And
within this process,
it means challenging
what we have
held to be true to ourselves.
On all levels, but part of
it is what's essentially
being cast from
the outside to us--
and you say this
in the book, that
the fear you were talking
about, the anger, the fear,
and so forth-- in order to be
manipulated by something larger
and even beyond us, it needs
to be reduced to an image.
And this is how the mass
cultural hypnosis works.
Everything that is
desired to keep you small
and away from your
true imagination
is reduced to an image.
Let's talk about this
phenomenon and give
examples of how that works.
>>TAYLOR: Well, I mean, if
you look at the greatest
images which people aspire to--
it'll put atheists in this,
and you'll understand
where I'm going with this--
is that we anthropomorphize God.
And so we create
an image of God.
So Jesus is God,
or Mother Mary is
the mother of the living Christ.
And then we have the
Buddha, who I understand,
they say is not a religion.
But here's the issue.
Every thought process
is a religion.
Because every single
one has its own god.
Quantum physics has
the great god Random,
and all of the lesser
deities to which they pray.
You know, the god of biology,
the god of quantum physics,
whatever-- these are
all lesser deities.
The atheist has the great god
of Atheism, the lack of belief,
to which they pray.
And then they still have
a belief in themselves--
which is fine.
It's oftentimes healthier
than a lot of the others.
But we image things.
Now the great master beings
that have walked on this planet
have always said,
come to this form.
All right, so that might
be the form of Christ
or the form of Buddha.
But test it.
Test it and really push every
single part of that test,
and go through the form and
come out the other side.
Because if you get
stuck on the form,
you will never know the
truth of your own being.
>>REGINA: That
makes perfect sense.
And to name it and then
believe in what you have named
cuts off your
experience completely.
>>TAYLOR: It limits.
It limits.
And so all the while-- now I
made the point in the book.
But if you actually look
at all of the images which
are being projected
upon us-- I mean,
there are images, not only
the ones we spoke about,
from violence or
more, et cetera.
But the pop culture
has got images.
Now there's nothing
wrong with that.
And the spiritual journey
is not about being,
oh, I must be than
holier than thou.
Because nothing
could be more boring,
because the great spiritual
beings that I've known
have always said, one,
I'm going to have fun.
Two, I'm going to make a
joke out of everything.
And I'll come back
to that in a moment.
But the real thing
is to actually
have the willingness,
the willingness
to break through every single
thought form and realize,
if you can imagine something,
you have limited yourself.
You must rise above it.
See, because mind is my end.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>TAYLOR: It's literally
that same thing.
>>REGINA: And so let's
go back to the joke,
because it is all a game.
>>TAYLOR: Right.
I spoke to you about-- when we
met once before, I spoke to you
about one of my great teachers
was somebody I loved immensely.
I still do.
His name's Jack Curtis.
He's passed.
Jack came to a program
I was teaching.
Now this is the irony.
He came to a program
I was teaching.
And I didn't know-- I
knew him as a friend
but I didn't know what
he really did know.
And he came up to me one
day, and he said, Nigel,
would you like to get together
and discuss some of this?
He said, I think I could share
a couple of things with you.
Well, the bottom line
was, as I shared with you,
Jack wrote for a
few mystery schools.
He was a brilliant man, a
Queen's Counselor in Australia,
black belt, and he
was in the military.
He's extremely
well-trained in everything.
Now Jack, when he passed,
I was at his bedside.
This was a profound
experience, to be
with this man at his passing.
I held his hand when you
took his last breath,
and his words were,
"Nigel, it is all a joke."
>>REGINA: Oh, I love it.
>>TAYLOR: Because he
saw it for what it was,
that we had bought
in to things--
>>REGINA: And we
take it so seriously.
>>TAYLOR: We took
it so seriously.
This is why Rajneesh, and
this is why all these--
>>REGINA: They were
always jokesters.
>>TAYLOR: Every--
like all of them.
All of them.
It's like, and if
you get serious,
it's like Paramahansa Yogananda.
You know, it's like-- he--
I remember-- Yogananda,
one of the-- and
I'm paraphrasing.
But one of the things
Yogananda always said.
He said, you look at
the power of the waves.
You feel the
majesty of the winds
when it comes in a hurricane.
You absolutely embrace the heat.
And he said, but this pales,
all, to the significance of one
thought when you master it.
>>REGINA: Isn't
that-- yes, how true.
Beautiful.
Nigel, we're out of time,
and we only got about halfway
through the interview.
So--
>>TAYLOR: [LAUGHTER]
Oh, I apologize.
>>REGINA: No, no,
it's wonderful.
So I was going to
say, would you be
willing to come back
and do this again?
>>TAYLOR: Oh, of course.
>>REGINA: There's so much
more of this profound nature
that we haven't even
scratched the surface of.
>>TAYLOR: Well, it's been my
privilege to share with you.
And I will say this.
I'm very grateful you're
doing what you're doing.
>>REGINA: Thank you.
>>TAYLOR: Because so many people
can benefit from all the work
you're doing.
>>REGINA: So let's do
more of this together.
And meanwhile, I want
to read one last thing.
This is a Rumi quote.
And you can make quick
comment before we sign off.
It says, "Your task is
not to seek for love,
but merely to seek and find all
of the barriers within yourself
that you have felt against it."
We are love.
That's the essence of us.
>>TAYLOR: That's who we are.
I mean, the thing
is, you know, it's
like, how can anything ever
be said that's more rich
than that?
Because what he's saying,
in a nutshell, is you
will never know love until
you become your truth.
When you look at
everything-- it's
like, you drop--
I'm trying to think.
You know, there
used to be a machine
you'd drop all these
different-color slides in front
of.
It was used for healing.
And I think it was
called a Bioptron light.
And what they would do is
they'd have this Faraday cage,
and they'd drop in all these
different levels of light.
Based upon the frequency
of the disease,
they would pull out
specific things.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>TAYLOR: Now if we
kept pulling these out,
what you're doing is you're
letting the light shine.
And all he's saying is--
>>REGINA: Pulling
out the filters.
>>TAYLOR: Look at who you are.
Take this away.
Look at that.
That's not true.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
it's-- it's beautiful.
I love that.
I thought we should
finish on that.
So I'm going to say, until
next time, thank you so much.
>>TAYLOR: My absolute pleasure.
Thank you, Regina.
>>REGINA: Again,
Nigel Taylor's book
is titled "The Power
Before Thought."
It's truly enlightening.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[MUSIC PLAYING]